This file covers an introduction into Splunk and Chronicle.

Perform a query with Splunk
    The program Splunk was downloaded and opened in browser for this lab and introduction.
    A sample .pcap file with data packets was given to upload and explore.
    Task 1. View all recorded events
        Use the main to search for index=main.
        This returns all items that have been indexed in a given time frame, in this case all time.
        The returned items show fields such as host, source and sourcetype.
        Host refers to who or what is the origin of the event.
        Source refers to the origin file name for the event.
        Sourcetype refers to how the data is formatted. 

    Task 2. Narrow your search to find the events from the mail server.
        The search in narrowed with the prompt index=main host=mailsv.
        To search within this list for failed login attempts we add the string fail* root.
        This is to catch fail, failure and failed with the * wildcard
        Root is added to catch that word in addition to fail*.

This conculded the Perform a query with Splunk Lab.

Perform a query with Chronicle
    Chronicle was opened in browser for this lab and introduction.
    Task 1. Perform a domain search.
        In the chronicle search bar the prompt 'signin.office365x24.com' was enetered and under DOMAINS
            it was a selectable option, and was chosen. The view was set to legacy for this lab.
        This view presented multiple pieces of information about the domain.
        VT CONTEXT - give Virustotal information about the domain
        WHOIS - give information about the domain using the WHOIS directory
        Prevalence - This is a graph showing how often a domain has or is being accessed.
        RESOLVED IPS - This shows the IP address that maps to that given domain name.
        ET INTELLIGENCE REP LIST - This gives additional insights about the domain useing ProofPoint's
            Emerging Threats Intelligence Rep List.
        Timeline - By clicking expand all shows all HTTP GET and POST requests.
        Assets - This shows assets that have access to a domain.
    
    Task 2. Investigate the Threat data
        Opening the VT CONTEXT shows that 10 vendors have flagged this as malicious
        The ET INTELLIGENCE REP LIST shows that this website is a drop site for logs or stolen credentials.
    
    Task 3. Investigate the Affected Assets and events
        In the timeline we can see that 6 unique assets have accessed the domain.
        They are as follows:(Ashton-davidson-pc,
                            Bruce-monroe-pc,
                            Coral-alvarez-pc,
                            Emil-palmer-pc,
                            Jude-reyes-pc,
                            Roger-spence-pc)
        Of those who have accessed the domain POST requests were made by 2 assets.
        They are as follows:(Ashton-davidson-pc,
                            emil-palmer-pc)
        POST indicated information was sent to the server and could indicate a successful phishing attack.
    
    Task 4. Investigate Resolved IP address
        Under the Resolved IP tab the ip of 40.100.174.34 is listed.
        This has the same POST requests with the addition of warren-morris-pc.
        There are also two more affected assets which are as follows:(amir-david-pc, warren-morris-pc)
        Additionally the domain of signin.accounts-gooqle.com is affilated with this IP.

This concludes the Perform a query with Chronicle Lab.


